## Places
_"I am the master of all I see, so long as all I see is that which I have mastered."_

Mystical locations are amongst the _least_ destabilizing of all possible special magics. The fact that they are large compared to a person and completely non-transportable means that they can be worked into one story without necessarily having a strong impact on any later stories.

### The Pet Cemetery
You all know the legend of the pet cemetery where if you bury someone "just right"they come back from the dead. And maybe (like, almost every time) it goes horribly wrong and the person or animal comes back as some sort of hideous monster that probably eats people or something. That sort of thing _exists_ in After Sundown. It's a kind of Shadow Gate, and the thing that makes it of interest is that they aren't continuously open, so they aren't spraying a horde of poltergeists all over everything, nor does it _necessarily_ come with a giant zombie apocalypse. The idea is that there are things you have to do in order to activate the Shadow Gate, and even then only for brief periods. So while it _can_ be used to transform the corpse of a Luminary into a Revenant, and by extension can be used to start a zombie outbreak deliberately, it doesn't have to be. And that's _great_ news for supernaturals who want to send people and things back and forth to Mictlan and _don't_ want a never ending ghost storm or zombie tide. These "locked gates" are, while certainly dangerous, highly prized.A Locked Shadow Gate requires some "key" to "open". While open, it can function as a two way passage to The Gloom, and it can manifest Necromancies like a normal Shadowgate would. The one from the King novel of the same name opened for one hour the midnight following someone making a stack of rocks in front of it. This was used to raise the dead, with different corpses coming back as per Reanimation, and others coming back as per Resurrection. The very unpredictability of it (and the fact that zombies created in this manner are completely uncontrolled) is why those in the know about supernatural events generally suggest _not_ trying to bring loved ones back with a Locked Gate.

A Locked or Open Shadowgate both constitute a rating 3 Destiny.

### The Goblin Market
It's a wretched hive of scum and villainy to be sure, but an invaluable source of information and rare goods. Step through the mirror and you find yourself in a grungy and ash strewn marketplace where foul abominations sell horrid things to one another. For the right number of kittens, you could get yourself rare spices, dubious information, or a group of shady mercenaries from all over the world. There are a number of egresses from the Goblin Market, and while all of their Limbo sides are within the marketplace, their human world sides are all over the place.

The Goblin Market is a _Mirror Nexus_, a small area of the Dark Reflection that is connected to several mirrors in different parts of the mortal world. Most of those gate mirrors are actually quite immobile (such as the lake surface), or transient (such as the newly washed window of a skyscraper), but there are a few entrances that are portable enough for someone to own one. Like any Mirror Nexus, the Goblin Market can be used to travel around the world at tremendous speed (albeit only to specific places linked by the mirrors in it). Some Mirror Nexuses are basically unknown, which means that unlike the Goblin Market, a character cannot go there in order to do shady commerce or perform some sort of information gathering montage. However, these have the added advantage that the characters can travel through them without being seen by dozens of Trolls and hundreds of Mirror Goblins who are all of dubious and negotiable loyalties.

Any of the handful of Mirror Nexuses, whether currently occupied or not, constitutes a Rating 4 Destiny.

### Yggdrasil
It is the greatest tree, from whence dreams of power come. And it has roots in the dreams of all who wield authority. Yggdrasil is a towering tree of specifically indeterminate type. It grows somewhere in the Deep Maya, and it is taller than the limits of vision in that strange place. Supposedly it is somehow watered by the _idea_ of authority, and drinking its sap or eating its seeds gives one delusions of might. The Deep Maya is pretty locationally unstable, and when in the presence of the mighty arboreal construct this property is exacerbated - returning to the world of mortals could leave one anywhere. At least, anywhere that there are people sleeping who hold power over others.

Climbing its branches you can end up in the location of any source of temporal power where people are sleeping nearby. So you can pop into the White House in the middle of the night or into the Indian Parliament during a particularly boring speech. By climbing the tree with deliberate intention, one can arrange to end up near a specific hall of power (such as the Tienanmen Square Parliament Building or the Covenant Grand Chapel in Rome), but not to the extent of showing up in a specific person's bedroom. The accuracy is to within a couple dozen meters, and when the character appears in the mortal world they seem to simply mist in. The seeds and sap of the tree are poisonous and cause delusions of grandeur. But they are also extremely valuable in a number of special Bitter Fruit recipes, and can be used to make potions that sap the will, inspire loyalty, or make someone appear physically attractive.

Yggdrasil is a Rating 6 Destiny.
